.TH facial_capture 1 "November 2025" "pam_facial_auth 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
facial_capture \- capture face images for training facial recognition models
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B facial_capture
\-u USER
[\-d DEVICE] [\-w WIDTH] [\-h HEIGHT] [\-n NUM]
[\-s SEC] [\-f] [\-\-clean|\-\-flush]
[\-\-nogui] [\-v] [\-\-debug] [\-\-detector NAME] [\-H]
[\-c FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B facial_capture
utility captures face images from a video device and stores them in the
user-specific image directory. These images are used by
.BR facial_training (1)
to generate facial recognition models.

Images are processed through a Haar cascade classifier for face detection
and are stored as grayscale, equalized, and normalized frames.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-u " " USER ", " \-\-user=USER
Specify the user for whom images will be captured.
.TP
.BR \-d " " DEVICE ", " \-\-device=DEVICE
Override the video capture device (default: /dev/video0).
.TP
.BR \-w " " WIDTH ", " \-\-width=WIDTH
Set capture frame width.
.TP
.BR \-h " " HEIGHT ", " \-\-height=HEIGHT
Set capture frame height.
.TP
.BR \-n " " NUM ", " \-\-num_images=NUM
Number of face images to capture.
.TP
.BR \-s " " SEC ", " \-\-sleep=SEC
Delay in seconds between captures.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force overwrite of existing images.
.TP
.BR \-\-nogui
Disable GUI output.
.TP
.BR \-\-clean ", " \-\-flush
Remove all images for the specified user and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Enable debug output.
.TP
.BR \-c " " FILE ", " \-\-config=FILE
Use an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-\-detector " " NAME
Select face detector (yunet, haar).
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/pam_facial_auth/pam_facial.conf
Default configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR facial_training (1),
.BR facial_test (1),
.BR pam_facial_auth (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Andrea Postiglione and contributors.
