.TH pam_facial_auth 8 "November 2025" "pam_facial_auth 1.0" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
pam_facial_auth \- PAM module providing face recognition authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
Add to
.I /etc/pam.d/system-auth
or
.I /etc/pam.d/login
the line:
.PP
.B auth sufficient pam_facial_auth.so [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pam_facial_auth
module performs face recognition–based authentication within the Linux
PAM framework.

The module loads a user-specific trained model and captures live webcam
frames to verify identity. Haar-based face detection is used unless
replaced by a future DNN-based detector.

If authentication succeeds, control returns to PAM with
.B PAM_SUCCESS.
Failure returns
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
unless configured otherwise.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B debug
Enable verbose diagnostics.
.TP
.B ignore\_unknown
If no facial model exists for the user, skip this module without failing.
.TP
.B ignore\_failure
Return success even if authentication fails.
(For debugging only.)
.TP
.B config=PATH
Specify a custom configuration file instead of
.I /etc/security/pam_facial.conf .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/security/pam_facial.conf
Module configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/pam_facial_auth/models/*.xml
Trained recognition models.
.TP
.I /etc/pam_facial_auth/images/*/
Captured face images.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP
.B PAM_SUCCESS
User authenticated.
.TP
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR
Authentication failed.
.TP
.B PAM_IGNORE
Module skipped due to configuration or missing model.
.SH NOTES
The webcam must be accessible by the process invoking PAM
(e.g., display manager, login service).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR facial_capture (1),
.BR facial_training (1),
.BR facial_test (1),
.BR pam (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Andrea Postiglione and contributors.
